## Open-Science-Thesis

### About

The Open-Science-Thesis
[repository](https://github.com/cpfaff/Open-Science-Thesis) contains a LaTeX
document which is thought to be forked and used for scientific thesis writing
on GitHub. The document combines the typesetting capabilities of LaTeX with the
R programming language for statistics, using the
[Knitr](http://yihui.name/knitr/) package. This combination allows for the
creation of executable documents that enhance the reproducibility of your
research documents.

The Open-Science-Thesis offers a clean and logical folder structure and lots of
examples of typical typesetting requirements to help you typeset your thesis.
It comes with a makefile that helps you to compile, clean and archive the
document. For an example see the PDF file inside of the repository or have a
look into the impressions section below.

### Development Note

This repository is still in development and the commands, environments and the
layout provided by the LaTeX class are subject to change. You might also find
the current version in master branch in unstable state so a compilation to PDF
is not possible!

### Use LaTeX-Class only

If you do not like to use the the document scaffold presented here you can also
use the LaTeX-Class with your own documents. Just
[download](https://github.com/cpfaff/Open-Science-Thesis/blob/master/ost/subdocuments/open_science_thesis.cls)
the class and include it and load it in your preamble with:

```
\documentclass[options]{open-science-thesis}
...
```


## Appetizer

### Titlepages

- vertical

![vertical](https://raw.github.com/wiki/cpfaff/Open-Science-Thesis/figures/titlepage_vertical_blue.png)

- horizontal

![horizontal](https://raw.github.com/wiki/cpfaff/Open-Science-Thesis/figures/titlepage_horizontal_blue.png)

- image

![image](https://raw.github.com/wiki/cpfaff/Open-Science-Thesis/figures/titlepage_image_blue.png)

- plain

![plain](https://raw.github.com/wiki/cpfaff/Open-Science-Thesis/figures/titlepage_plain_blue.png)

### Table of Contents

- fancy main tocs

![fancytoc](https://raw.github.com/wiki/cpfaff/Open-Science-Thesis/figures/toc_fancy_blue.png)

- partial tocs either on part or chapter sections

![parttitle](https://raw.github.com/wiki/cpfaff/Open-Science-Thesis/figures/twoside_color_orange_parttocs.png)

### Nice formatted `\part` sectioning

![part](https://raw.github.com/wiki/cpfaff/Open-Science-Thesis/figures/oneside_color_part_heading.png)

### Lettrines + coloring

* orange theme

![orange](https://raw.github.com/wiki/cpfaff/Open-Science-Thesis/figures/overview_colortheme_orange.png)

* blue theme

![blue](https://raw.github.com/wiki/cpfaff/Open-Science-Thesis/figures/overview_colortheme_blue.png)

* green theme

![green](https://raw.github.com/wiki/cpfaff/Open-Science-Thesis/figures/overview_colortheme_green.png)

* red theme

![red](https://raw.github.com/wiki/cpfaff/Open-Science-Thesis/figures/overview_colortheme_red.png)

### Quotations

![quotations](https://raw.github.com/wiki/cpfaff/Open-Science-Thesis/figures/focus_quotation_orange.png)


### Frames for images

![imageframed](https://raw.github.com/wiki/cpfaff/Open-Science-Thesis/figures/focus_image_framed_orange.png)

### Tables (booktabs)

![table](https://raw.github.com/wiki/cpfaff/Open-Science-Thesis/figures/focus_table_orange.png)


### Code Listings (in solarized color theme)

![code](https://raw.github.com/wiki/cpfaff/Open-Science-Thesis/figures/oneside_color_orange_listing.png)

## See also

The Open-Science-Thesis is one of a series of document classes. You might also
be interested in one of the following repositories.

- [Open-Science-Paper](https://github.com/cpfaff/Open-Science-Paper)
- [Open-Science-Poster](https://github.com/cpfaff/Open-Science-Poster)

## Self-promotion

Do you like the Open-Science-Thesis repository? You are welcome to follow me on
[GitHub](https://github.com/cpfaff) and or
[Twitter](http://twitter.com/ctpfaff).

## License

<a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/"><img alt="Creative Commons License" style="border-width:0" src="http://i.creativecommons.org/l/by-nc-sa/3.0/88x31.png" /></a><br />This work is licensed under a <a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/">Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License</a>.
